This research proposes a machine-learning system that uses natural-language processing and feature engineering to identify phishing emails. Despite the prevalence of phishing, there are no local applications that allow users to evaluate suspicious emails, and even fewer tools are prepared to classify phishing emails generated by Large Language Models (LLMs). The classifiers Random Forests, Na誰ve Bayes, K-Nearest Neighbours (KNN), and Decision Trees were trained using a pipeline that includes k-fold cross-validation to achieve a balanced performance. Furthermore, a full-stack application using Python, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript was created to allow users to identify emails, alongside URL analysis by integrating the VirusTotal API. The classifiers trained on 80% of a balanced human-curated dataset containing phishing and legitimate emails, combining the Nazario phishing corpus (2025), CEAS_08 (2008), Nigerian Fraud (2007), and a sample of Enron (2015) email datasets summing to 91,658 emails. I conducted two separate tests, first with the remaining 20% of the human-curated dataset to see if the classifiers are accurate, and a second test on 1,865 LLM-generated phishing emails combining Eze & Shamir (2024), and Greco et al. (2024) datasets to see if they can identify phishing emails generated by LLMs. On the first test, Random Forests scored a flawless AUC-ROC of 100%, Na誰ve Bayes and KNN 99%, and Decision Trees 90%. This shows that the classifiers are great at discriminating between human-curated phishing and legitimate emails. Testing LLM-generated phishing emails shows Random Forests classifying 97% as phishing, KNN, and Na誰ve Bayes identifying 65% and 60% respectively, and Decision Trees only identifying 24%. Studying the performance graph reveals that Decision Trees has the worst F1-score out of them. In contrast, Random Forests, Na誰ve Bayes, and KNN have better accuracy, recall, and precision. Together, these classifiers provide users with an opportunity to check suspicious emails, including those generated by LLMs.

This project uses the VirusTotal API and is therefore **not permitted for commerical use**. Any use of this software must comply with VirusTotal's Terms of Services.
You may use or modify this code for non-commercial, educational, or research purposes only, and must provide appropriate credit following MIT License.
